"You mean old books?"

"Stories written before space travel but about space travel."

"How could there have been stories about space travel before —"

"The writers," Pris said, "made it up."

---

Strange how paranoia can link up with reality now and then.

---

Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away.

---

The true measure of a man is not his intelligence or how high he rises in this
freak establishment. No, the true measure of a man is this: how quickly can he
respond to the needs of others and how much of himself he can give.

---

I'm not much but I'm all I have.

---

The basic tool for the manipulation of reality is the manipulation of words. If
you can control the meaning of words, you can control the people who must use
them.

---

If you think this Universe is bad, you should see some of the others.

---

Everything in life is just for a while.

---

A weird time in which we are alive. We can travel anywhere we want, even to
other planets. And for what? To sit day after day, declining in morale and hope.

---

Truth, she thought. As terrible as death. But harder to find.

---

What does a scanner see? he asked himself. I mean, really see? Into the head?
Down into the heart? Does a passive infrared scanner like they used to use or a
cube-type holo-scanner like they use these days, the latest thing, see into me -
into us - clearly or darkly? I hope it does, he thought, see clearly, because I
can't any longer these days see into myself. I see only murk. Murk outside; murk
inside. I hope, for everyone's sake, the scanners do better. Because, he
thought, if the scanner sees only darkly, the way I myself do, then we are
cursed, cursed again and like we have been continually, and we'll wind up dead
this way, knowing very little and getting that little fragment wrong too.

---

It really seems to me that in the midst of great tragedy, there is always the
horrible possibility that something terribly funny will happen.

---

The distinction between sanity and insanity is narrower than a razor’s edge,
sharper than a hound’s tooth, more agile than a mule deer. It is more elusive
than the merest phantom. Perhaps it does not even exist; perhaps it is a
phantom.

---

No structure, even an artificial one, enjoys the process of entropy. It is the
ultimate fate of everything, and everything resists it.

---

They want to be the agents, not the victims, of history. They identify with
God's power and believe they are godlike. That is their basic madness. They are
overcome by some archtype; their egos have expanded psychotically so that they
cannot tell where they begin and the godhead leaves off. It is not hubris, not
pride; it is inflation of the ego to its ultimate — confusion between him who
worships and that which is worshipped. Man has not eaten God; God has eaten man.

---

Maybe I'll go where I can see stars, he said to himself as the car gained
velocity and altitude; it headed away from San Francisco, toward the uninhabited
desolation to the north. To the place where no living thing would go. Not unless
it felt that the end had come.

---

How undisturbed, the sleep of the foolish.

---

… we all lie to ourselves; we tell our own selves more lies than we ever do
other people.

---

"God is dead," Nick said. "They found his carcass in 2019. Floating in space
near Alpha."

"They found the remains of an organism advanced several thousand times over what
we are," Charley said. "And evidently could create habitable worlds and populate
them with living organisms, derived from itself. But that doesn't prove it was
God."

---

I became educated to the fact that the greatest pain does not come zooming down
from a distant planet, but from the depths of the heart. Of course, both could
happen; your wife and child could leave you, and you could be sitting alone in
your empty house with nothing to live for, and in addition the Martians could
bore through the roof and get you.

---

Perhaps if you know you are insane then you are not insane. Or you are becoming
sane, finally. Waking up.

---

On some other world, possibly it is different. Better. There are clear good and
evil alternatives. Not these obscure admixtures, these blends, with no proper
tool by which to untangle the components.

---

What profit it a man if he gain the whole world but in this enterprise lose his
soul?

---

"Everything is true," he said. "Everything anybody has ever thought."

"Will you be all right?"

"I'll be all right," he said, and thought, and I'm going to die. Both those are
true, too.

---

The bird is gone, and in what meadow does it now sing?

---

There are no private lives. This a most important aspect of modern life. One of
the biggest transformations we have seen in our society is the diminution of the
sphere of the private. We must reasonably now all regard the fact that there are
no secrets and nothing is private. Everything is public.

---

I don't judge, not even myself.

---

Many men talk like philosophers and live like fools.

---

When do I see a photograph, when a reflection?

---

In a one-party system there is always a landslide.

---

“I’ll sue you,” the door said as the first screw fell out. Joe Chip said, “I’ve
never been sued by a door. But I guess I can live through it.”

---

What a tragic realm this is, he reflected. Those down here are prisoners, and
the ultimate tragedy is that they don't know it; they think they are free
because they have never been free, and do not understand what it means.

---

Can anyone alter fate? All of us combined... or one great figure... or someone
strategically placed, who happens to be in the right spot. Chance. Accident. And
our lives, our world, hanging on it.

---

But an artist, he realized. Or rather so-called artist. Bohemian. That's closer
to it. The artistic life without the talent.

---

He entered the elevator and together they moved closer to god.

---

Empathy, evidently, existed only within the human community, whereas
intelligence to some degree could be found throughout every phylum and order
including the arachnida.

---

In this dark world where he now dwelt, ugly things and surprising things and
once in a long while a tiny wondrous thing spilled out at him constantly; he
could count on nothing.

---

The door refused to open. It said, "Five cents, please."

---


"You're - psychotic. There's something wrong with you."

"I know," Benteley agreed. "I'm a sick man. And the more I see, the sicker I
get. I'm so sick I think everybody else is sick and I'm the only healthy person.
That's pretty bad off, isn't it?”

---

Maybe there was once a human who looked like you, and somewhere along the line
you killed him and took his place. And your superiors don’t know.

---

Love isn't just wanting another person the way you want to own an object you see
in a store. That's just desire. You want to have it around, take it home and set
it up somewhere in the apartment like a lamp.

---

Tomorrow morning, he decided, I'll begin clearing away the sand of fifty
thousand centuries for my first vegetable garden. That's the initial step.

---

Death is very close, he thought. When you think in this manner. I can feel it,
he decided. How near I am. Nothing is killing me; I have no enemy, no
antagonist; I am merely expiring, like a magazine subscription: month by month.

---

Fat heard in her rational tone the harp of nihilism, the twang of the void.

---

We are all sleeping avatars of God, with amnesia.

---

Once, in a cheap science fiction novel, Fat had come across a perfect
description of the Black Iron Prison, but set in the far future. So if you
superimposed the past (ancient Rome) over the present (California in the
twentieth century) and superimposed the far future world of The Android Cried Me
a River over that, you got the Empire, as the supra- or trans-temporal constant.
Everyone who had ever lived was literally surrounded by the iron walls of the
prison; they were all inside it and none of them knew it.

---

"Send that," he told her. "Sign it, et cetera. Work the sentences, if you wish,
so that they will mean something." As she started from the office he added, "Or
so that they mean nothing. Whichever you prefer."

---

Everything wears out eventually; nothing is permanent. Change is the one
constant of life.

---

“We'll fight back, we'll fight back, we'll fight back," a man near Doctor
Stockstill was chanting. Stockstill looked at him in astonishment, wondering who
he would fight back against. Things were falling on them; did the man intend to
fall back upward into the sky in some sort of revenge?

---

No rational response was possible. Her irrationality made it so. The terrible
power, he thought, of illogic.

---

Pious people spoke to God, and crazy people imagined that God spoke back.

---

Isn't a beautiful dream better than a cruel reality?

---

Silence. It flashed from the woodwork and the walls; it smote him with an awful,
total power, as if generated by a vast mill. It rose from the floor, up out of
the tattered gray wall-to-wall carpeting. It unleashed itself from the broken
and semi-broken appliances in the kitchen, the dead machines which hadn’t worked
in all the time Isidore had lived here. From the useless pole lamp in the living
room it oozed out, meshing with the empty and wordless descent of itself from
the fly-specked ceiling. It managed in fact to emerge from every object within
his range of vision, as if it—the silence—meant to supplant all things tangible.

---

Flow my tears, fall from your springs!
Exiled forever let me mourn;
Where night’s black bird her sad infamy sings,
There let me live forlorn.

---

That is not how you do it; you do not solve one problem with another, greater
problem.

---

Forty-two. His age had astounded him for years, and each time that he had sat so
astounded, trying to figure out what had become of the young, slim man in his
twenties, a whole additional year slipped by and had to be recorded, a
continually growing sum which he could not reconcile with his self-image. He
still saw himself, in his mind's eye, as youthful, and when he caught sight of
himself in photographs he usually collapsed ... Somebody took my actual physical
presence away and substituted this, he had thought from time to time. Oh well,
so it went.